6 Podcasts About Unsolved Mysteries
Real-life mysteries are the bread and butter of modern podcasting. Seven years ago, “Serial” pushed the format into the mainstream with its gripping reinvestigation of the 1999 murder of Hae Min Lee, a Baltimore high school student, and the questionable conviction of her ex-boyfriend, Adnan Syed. The feverish response to “Serial” was fueled by the seemingly endless ambiguities and questions surrounding the case, many of which remain unanswered to this day.Unsolved mysteries can be frustrating, but they also leave more room for speculation and armchair sleuthing than the ones with tidy endings. In the years since “Serial,” there’s been an explosion of shows trying to recreate its appeal by delving into cold cases, disappearances and mysterious events. These are six of the best, offering everything from compelling true-crime journalism to a quirky Hollywood mystery with Tom Hanks at its center.On the evening of Sep. 10, 2001, a security camera in downtown Manhattan recorded Sneha Anne Philip shopping at Century 21. It was the last time she was ever seen alive. After the 9/11 attacks the following morning, Philip, who was 31, became one of thousands reported missing. Since she was a doctor, her relatives assumed that she had died helping victims at the towers, but this gripping iHeartRadio series reveals a much more complicated picture of her still-unsolved disappearance. Solid information is scarce, but “Missing on 9/11” rarely feels like it’s treading water — in one especially compelling chapter, the host, Jon Walczak, enlists an expert on the art of “pseudocide,” a.k.a. faking your own death. The podcast ends abruptly after 10 episodes, and it’s unclear whether more are coming. But if you’re craving more, the same team previously produced “Missing in Alaska,” an equally intriguing show about the vanishing of two congressmen in 1972.Starter episode: “9/10”This delightfully low stakes yet emotionally engaging Hollywood mystery is hosted by the actor-comedian Connor Ratliff, whom you may recognize from bit parts in shows like “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel.” Two decades ago, fresh out of drama school, Ratliff landed a small role in the HBO mini-series “Band of Brothers” alongside Tom Hanks, only to be unceremoniously fired on the eve of shooting. The reason? According to a tactless assistant, it was because Hanks himself watched Ratliff’s audition tape and was put off by his “dead eyes.” Still haunted by this devastatingly specific critique, Ratliff embarks on an audio quest to figure out if America’s most-beloved actor really hates his eyes, aided by a few famous friends including Jon Hamm, Damon Lindelof and even a few “Band of Brothers” alums. Now in its third season, “Dead Eyes” has evolved beyond its core mystery to become a broader window into the humiliations of Hollywood, which Ratliff plumbs with such affable warmth that you’ll be rooting for him to finally get the answers he craves.